
#Table of Contents

1. [Syllabus] (https://github.com/easauceda/ee444/blob/master/course-material/EE444_Spring_2016_Syllabus.pdf)
2. [Computer Organization vs Computer Architecture] (#computer-organization-vs-computer-architecture)
3. [Structure & Function] (#structure--function)
4. [Four Basic Functions of the System] (#four-basic-functions-of-the-system)
5. [Structure of the System] (#structure-of-the-system)

###Computer Organization vs Computer Architecture

**Computer Organization**

 - Refers to the actual physical component of the system
 - Hardware details and how they interact with each other
 - These attributes are **transparent** to the programmer
  - Control Signal
  - Memory System

**Computer Architecture**

 - Attributes that are **visible** to the programmer and have direct impact to the program.
  - ISA -> Instruction Set Architecture
  - The number of bits used to represent a datatype
  - Registers

**Example One**

Suppose we have a multiply instruction.

How do we implement this? 

This is an **organizational** decision.

Repeated addition vs ...


###Structure & Function

**A computer is a complex system**

We need to understand:
 - **Structure**: Components, subcomponents & how they interact with each other.
 - **Function**: How each of these components operate, or what their responsibility is with respect to the whole system.

**However**, before we can do that we need to understand the four basic functions of a computer system.

###Four Basic Functions of the System

Top Level View of a Computer System

 1. Data Storage
  - Short-term & long-term
 2. Data Processing
  - If the device is connnected to the system **directly**, the process is called **Input/Output (I/O)** and the device is called a **peripheral**.
  - If the device is connected over a **longer distance**, the process is referred to as **communication**.
 3. Data Movement
 4. Control


###Structure of the System


System Structure View


 - **CPU**: Central Processing Unit.
  - Instruction fetch, decoding, and exectution.
 - **System Bus**: Makes it possible for CPU, memory, & I/O to communicate and exchange information.
 - **I/O**: Moves data into the system and out.
 - **Main Memory**: Provides storage for system.

**CPU: In Depth**


- **Control Unit**: Controls the operation of the CPU & by extension controls the system.
- **Arithmetic Logic Unit**: Provides data processing functions.
- **Register**: Provides internal storage for CPU.









